the larger the tam the easier it is to
market have you heard of the word tam
before it stands for total addressable
market for example the global healthcare
market is a 2.5 trillion dollar industry
that's massive on the flip side the web
analytics market is roughly 10.7 billion
dollars and that's in 2026 according to
allied market research and it's not even
2026 yet the reason i bring up web
analytics is few my businesses were web
analytics businesses in the past and i
wish that it went after much bigger
markets see in the past none of my
businesses were really massive compared
to what i ended up creating later on my
career as an entrepreneur
why well the biggest reason is is i went
after companies that were in really
small markets
at least when you compare it to markets
like health insurance this lesson took
me roughly 15 years or so to fully
understand
and investors would always tell me is a
market big enough i'm like yeah it's a
10 plus billion dollar industry but
you're never going to gobble up the
whole industry you're only going to
gobble up a fraction might as well go
after a multi-trillion dollar industry
and gobble up a small fraction it's much
easier to build a bigger company and
when i started out as an entrepreneur at
the age of 16 i built companies that
solve problems these problems in many
cases were related to the marketing
niche but there are only so many people
or companies that needed these solutions
and the companies did well and they made
millions of dollars for myself
but i wasn't able to build really
massive multi-billion dollar companies
from these markets why because the tam
was too small
now my ad agency np digital is one of
the fastest growing companies ever built
technically it was the fastest growing
company ever built and it was the 21st
fastest growing company in america
according to inc magazine main reason
is because the tam for ad agencies is
much larger than let's say web analytics
heck there's ad agencies even single ad
agencies that are worth more than the
whole web analytics market now if i had
to go back in time yes i would have
picked a bigger tam i'm not really sure
what industry i would go after but i
definitely would have picked a bigger
tan because it's easier to market in
bigger markets yes the bigger the market
the more competition you also have but
it's easier to build a company that has
seven figures or even 10 plus million
dollars in annual revenue when you're
going after a massive camp because it's
just a fraction of a percent that you'll
need to do well
same thing with marketing you don't
always have to focus on search volume or
cost per click instead focus on tam
you'll find that the bigger the tam the
easier it is to market and to do well
that's what marketers forget about when
they do the marketing they focus too
much on search volume and conversion
rates and market research versus just
making sure the tam is big enough look
almost everyone in the united states
needs health insurance heck most people
in the world need health care that's an
example of a big tap now i'm not saying
you need to go after a temp that's that
big but that gives you idea of how big a
market could potentially be and you got
to figure out all right what's best for
you now whether you have a small town or
a big tent if you need help gobbling the
majority of that market share check out
my ad agency np digital we were the
performance marketing agency of the year
because we provide amazing results we
can help you do better as well if you
enjoyed this video like it share it tell
the people about it thank you for
watching i
truly enjoy you taking time out of your
day to watch this video thank you very
much